The growing space debris problem poses a significant threat to functional satellites in orbit and future space missions. Debris of various sizes in orbit is hard to track, so accountability for everyone's actions is crucial in making space sustainable.

To highlight the top contributors, let's take a look at a bar chart visualising the objects that have generated the most debris:
The blue bar represents the total number of debris originating from that object, and the orange bar represents the active pieces from those objects still in orbit.
The Fengyun 1C tops the chart as it generated the most debris from an anti-satellite missile test executed by #China. The Cosmos/ Kosmos 1408 debris event was also a result of an anti-satellite missile test carried out by #Russia.
The debris generated from Cosmos/ Kosmos 2251 was due to an accidental collision with Iridium 33. 
The Delta 1 and the CZ-6A are debris from rocket bodies.

While the bar chart offers a snapshot of the debris problem, it's important to remember that the numbers may not be absolute as debris tracking and measurement techniques are evolving. The chart only represents a fraction of the debris population, as many smaller fragments remain undetected. The graph doesn't showcase the spatial distribution of debris, which also plays a crucial role in collision risks.

This visual representation of the #spacedebris issue should be a stark reminder of the urgency. We must collectively strive towards promoting #internationalcollaboration to address the #global nature of the space debris problem, raise public awareness about the dangers of space debris, and advocate for responsible space practices.

#spacesafety #PRC #Russia #NASA #ASAT #satellites #debris